---
id: pg-options
title: Postgres Connection Options
sidebar_label: Connection Options
---

For most people, the defaults should be fine, but you can customise the postgres connection with the following options:

## Common Options

- `bigIntAsString` (`boolean`, default: `false`) - By default, @databases/pg represents big ints as numbers, and throws an error for numbers greater than Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER. Setting this option to `true` allows you to use strings, which work for much larger numbers.
- `noLocking` (`boolean`, default: `false`) - Prevents protocol locking.
- `schema` (`string | string[]`) - Forces change of the default database schema(s) for every fresh connection, i.e. the library will execute `SET search_path TO schema_1, schema_2, ...` in the background whenever a fresh physical connection is allocated.
- `application_name`/`fallback_application_name` (`string`) - useful for debugging/analytics on the database usage
- `poolSize` (`number`, default: `10`) - the maximum number of connections in the connection pool
- `idleTimeoutMillis` (`number`, default: `30000`ms) - max milliseconds a client can go unused before it is removed from the pool and destroyed
- `statement_timeout` (`number | false`, default: `false`) - max milliseconds any query using this connection will execute for before timing out in error. false=unlimited
- `query_timeout` (`number | false`, default: `false`) - max milliseconds to wait for query to complete (client side). false=unlimited

## Events Handlers

pass a function with this name:

- [connect](http://vitaly-t.github.io/pg-promise/global.html#event:connect)
- [disconnect](http://vitaly-t.github.io/pg-promise/global.html#event:disconnect)
- [query](http://vitaly-t.github.io/pg-promise/global.html#event:query)
- [receive](http://vitaly-t.github.io/pg-promise/global.html#event:receive)
- [task](http://vitaly-t.github.io/pg-promise/global.html#event:task)
- [transact](http://vitaly-t.github.io/pg-promise/global.html#event:transact)
- [error](http://vitaly-t.github.io/pg-promise/global.html#event:error)
- [extend](http://vitaly-t.github.io/pg-promise/global.html#event:extend)

## Advanced Options

- `noDuplicateDatabaseObjectsWarning` (`boolean`, default: `false`) - Disable the warning: Creating a duplicate database object for the same connection. Use this if you need to create multiple connection pools for the same database.
- `pgFormatting` (`boolean`, default: `false`) - Redirects all query formatting to the pg driver.
- `pgNative` (`boolean`, default: `false`) - Use Native Bindings. Library pg-native must be included and installed independently, or else there will be an error thrown.
- `promiseLib` (`Promise` constructor, default: `Promise`) - Overrides the default (ES6 Promise) promise library, for its internal use.
- `capSQL` (`boolean`, default: `false`) - Capitalizes any SQL generated by pg-promise
- `noWarnings` (`boolean`, default: `false`) - Disables all diagnostic warnings in the library (it is ill-advised).
- `binary` (`boolean`, default: `false`) - binary result mode
- `client_encoding` (`string`)
- `encoding` (`string`)
- `isDomainSocket` (`boolean`, default: `false`)
- `parseInputDatesAsUTC` (`boolean`, default: `false`)
- `row` (`number`, default: `0` i.e. all rows) - number of rows to return at a time from a prepared statement's portal. 0 will return all rows at once
- `keepAlive` (`boolean`)